# YAMon3to4
Tool to migrate data from YAMon3 to YAMon4 format, preserving your history when upgrading.

INTRODUCTION

As a fan of the YAMon network monitoring tool (https://usage-monitoring.com/) for several years, I was frustrated with the impossibility of porting my data history from version 3 to version 4.
So I decided to develop a tool that would allow the automatic migration of this data.
The result was so satisfactory that I decided to share this work with the user community.


FUNCTIONALITIES

The data migrator YAMon3to4 migrates data files in three steps:
1. Migrate YYYY-MM-DD-hourly_data.js files from version 3 to hourly_YYYY-MM-DD.js files in version 4 format;
2. Migrate YYYY-MM-mac_data.js files from version 3 to YYYY-MM-mac_usage.js files from version 4 format;
3. Check for missing days in the monthly files YYY-MM-mac_usage.js and complete the daily data if the hourly_YYYY-MM-DD.js file corresponding to the day is available.


ATTENTION

YAMon is a monitoring solution developed and made available by Al Caughey at https://usage-monitoring.com/. All rights are its owner.

YAMon3to4 is a tool unrelated to YAMon, does not use its code and is not for profit.

YAMon3to4 is just a tool that accesses data generated by YAMon in one format (v3) and converts it to another format (v4), which is being made available for free to the community, with the sole purpose of collaborating and helping other enthusiasts who enjoy monitoring their networks.


LIMITATION OF LIABILITY

The use of YAMon3to4 is the sole responsibility of the user. Its author is not responsible for data loss if misused.
Use at your own risk.


QUICK USE GUIDE

Using YAMon3to4 is very simple. It was written in java and therefore runs on virtually any platform capable of running JVM.

Suggested practice:

1. Using WinSCP or similar, copy the entire YAMon3 "data" folder (usually "/opt/YAMon3/data") from your router to a local folder on your computer.

2. Run "YAMon3to4.jar" previously downloaded

3. In the application window, select the menu option "Convert YAMon3 to YAMon4"

4. You will be asked to select the data folder containing YAMon3 data. Select the folder you copied in step 1 and confirm.

5. The migrator will run and the result with the files converted to YAMon4 will be saved in a "data4" folder. For example, if you copied your data files to the "C:\temp\YAMon3\data" folder, the migrator will save the converted data to "C:\temp\YAMon3\data4".

6. Before proceeding, make a backup of your router YAMon4 data in order being able to recover if necessary (/opt/YAMon4/data).

7. Using WinSCP or similar again, copy the generated "data4" folder to your router's /opt/YAMon4/data folder.

8. It is recommended to clear your browser's cache for changes to YAMon reports to take effect.
